TECHNICAL PROCESS DOCUMENT - MOTOPAY


This document contains steps users are expected to take to achieve specific actions on the Motopay mobile application and the SOP for escalating issues for resolution. 


S/N
	MODULES
	ACTIONS 
	STEPS
	POSSIBLE FAIL CASES
	DISPUTE RESOLUTION SOP
	COMMENTS
	1
	Motopay
	Account Registration 
	Download the Motopay application from the authorised app store. (playstore and appstore)
	1. Unable to sign up successfully 
	Check that device is connected to the internet
	Upon signing up, users automatically agree to Motopay’s T/C
	Launch the application and click on "Sign Up" to create a new account.
	Check that KYC information provided are accurate 
	

	Enter the required information, including mobile number, first & last names, gender, bvn (if applicable) and password
	2. User didn’t get OTP
	Check that phone number provided is accurate
	

	Verify your mobile number through a one-time password (OTP) sent to the registered number.
	Check that device has internet connectivity 
	

	Upon successful registration, a confirmation message will be displayed, and the user can log in to their account.
	Contact support for assistance 
	

	2
	Account Setup
	Log in to the Motopay application using your registered credentials.
	3. User is unable to setup transaction pin 
	Check that user old pin matches with the user’s previously used pin 
	

	Check that the new pin differs from previous pin 
	Contact support for assistance 
	To update personal information, go to the "Profile"
	4. User is unable to view transaction history  
	Check that device has internet connectivity 
	

	Change password, PIN, or security settings if required, ensuring strong and unique credentials.
	5. Unable to update profile information
	Check that device has internet connectivity 
	

	Ensure information provided tallies with KYC data
	Contact support for assistance
	Regularly review account statements and transaction history for any discrepancies or unauthorised activities.
	6. User didn’t get OTP
	Check that phone number provided is accurate
	

	Check that device has internet connectivity 
	Contact support for assistance 
	 Enable two-factor authentication (2FA) for enhanced security (if/where applicable)
	7. User is unable to load screen
	Check that device has internet connectivity
	

	

	

	View dashboard
	Log in to your Motopay profile or click on the “M” icon on the bottom navigation bar
	

	

	

	3
	Payment
	Send Money
	Select the "Send Money" option from the dashboard.
	8. System is unable to generate receipt
	Check that device has internet connectivity
	

	Select preferred payment destination (motopay user or bank)
	9. Transaction failed
	Contact support for assistance
	

	Check to see if user has sufficient balance 
	Check that device has internet connectivity
	Enter the payment's details, including the amount and description
	10. User’s wallet is debited and recipient is not credited 
	Contact support for assistance
	

	Verify the transaction details and authorise the payment using the designated security feature (PIN)
	11. Payment status is successful but money is reversed to sender
	Contact support for assistance
	

	Once the payment is successful, a confirmation message will be displayed, and an electronic receipt will be sent to both parties.
	

	

	

	Once the payment is successful, a confirmation message will be displayed, and an electronic receipt will be sent to both parties.
	

	

	

	4
	Fund Wallet 
	Notify the sender of your Motopay registered mobile number, mototag, or QR code for receiving payments.
	12. System is unable to generate receipt
	Check that device has internet connectivity
	

	Ensure that your Motopay application is active to receive payment notifications.
	13. Transaction failed


	Contact support for assistance
	

	Check to see if user has sufficient balance 
	The received amount will be reflected in your Motopay account balance.
	Check that device has internet connectivity
	

	Check to see that wallet information is accurate 
	5
	Pay Bills
	Select the "Pay bills" option from the dashboard.
	14. Payment is successful  but user did not receive token
	Contact support for assistance
	The information required per bill includes but is not limited to: 


* Airtime - Network provider, mobile number (if applicable), amount.
* Data - Network provider, product/package, mobile number, amount. 
* Cable TV - Decoder number,bill plan, amount.
* Electricity - Meter number, bill plan, amount.
* Betting - User ID, bill plan, amount. 
	Select preferred bills to settle (airtime, data, cable, electricity, betting, water)
	15. User is unable to complete transaction 
	Check to see that users device has internet connectivity
	Check to see that user is inputting correct credentials 
	Check to see that user has sufficient balance 
	Enter all relevant information required per bill selected e.g, metre number, amount, service provider, biller, smartcard number, etc)
	

	

	Verify the transaction details and authorise the payment using the designated security feature (PIN)
	

	

	Once the payment is successful, a confirmation message will be displayed, and an electronic receipt will be sent to both parties.
	

	

	6
	Request Money
	Click the "Request Money" option from the dashboard.
	

	

	

	Select the “user” to request from
	

	

	

	Enter the request details, including the amount, description and proceed to request
	

	

	

	7
	Scan to pay
	Click the "Scan to Pay" option from the dashboard.
	16. User is unable to scan provided QR code 


	Check to see that user’s device has internet connectivity
	

	Scan the QR code provided using the scanner displayed
	17. User is unable to complete transaction 


	Check to see if user is inputting right authorization pin 
	

	Verify the transaction details and authorise the payment using the designated security feature (PIN)
	

	

	

	8
	Loan 
	Apply for loan 
	Click the "Loan" option from the dashboard.
	

	

	Loan applications take between 5 mins to 24 hours to process and can either be approved or declined. 


In a case where an application is declined, users will be notified and the reason for the decline properly communicated. 


In a case where an application is approved, the approved amount is automatically remitted into said user’s primary motopay wallet.
	Grant relevant pngme access including - sms, location, contact, etc and proceed to apply 
	

	

	Provide relevant and preferred loan information including - amount, duration, category, etc
	

	

	Provide personal information for verification purpose including - address, employment status, company name (if applicable), next of kin, next of kin phone number, guarantor, guarantor phone number, etc. and proceed to apply
	

	

	9
	Budget
	Set Spend Limit
	Navigate to the budget module and click on “set spend limit”
	

	

	Spend limit is applicable to the users primary account 
	Set preferred limit and duration then save
	

	

	10
	Lockfunds
	Navigate to the budget module and click on “lockfunds”
	

	

	

	Provide relevant data to allow successful completion of said action including but not limited to - title, amount, frequency, payment method, payment category, start & end date, etc 
	

	

	

	Verify the provided details and authorise the payment using the designated security feature (PIN)
	

	

	

	11
	Set Savings Target
	Navigate to the budget module and click on “savings target”
	

	

	

	Provide relevant data to allow successful completion of said action including but not limited to - title, amount, frequency, payment method, payment category, start & end date, etc 
	

	

	

	Verify the provided details and authorise the payment using the designated security feature (PIN)
	

	

	

	12
	Motopay
	View Credit Rating 
	Click on the (star) icon displayed on the profile to navigate to the credit rating screen 
	

	

	

	View information provided with regards to current credit rate and requirements for other ratings provided
	

	

	

	13
	Profile 
	Navigate to the “profile” module on the dashboard 
	18. Unable to update profile information
	Check that device has internet connectivity 
	

	Utilise provided actions to set up, edit or refine profile data. 


Actions provided include - profile settings, logout, account summary, setup store, invite friends, support, security, personal information, notification, kyc verification, etc. 
	Ensure information provided tallies with KYC data
	

	

	Follow the steps provided to achieve desired goal e.g edit, delete, add, etc
	Contact support for assistance
	

	14
	Shop
	Receive Orders
	Review order information as provided by buyer
	19. User is unable to accept or decline order
	Try rebooting user’s device
	Pickup can only be scheduled for accepted orders 
	Accept or decline order based on availability 
	

	Check that user’s device has internet connectivity 
	Schedule pickup for accepted orders 
	20. User is unable to schedule pickup
	Try rebooting user’s device
	Contact support for assistance 
	16
	List Products
	Click the “Add” button located on the shop homepage
	21. User is unable to list a product successfully
	Check that user has filled all compulsory fields 
	Published products are approved by admin before reflecting on the shop feed. 
	Provide information relevant to said product including - product category, amount, quantity in stock, description, variations (if/as applicable), delivery type (state/nationwide) etc
	Check that user’s device has internet connectivity
	Upload product images (min 3 and max 10)
	

	

	Publish said product to shop feed 
	

	

	17
	Edit Products
	Click on selected product
	

	

	Not all product details are editable. Details such as category, name, are static while details such as amount, quantity, description, delivery type, etc are editable. 
	Edit provided data 
	

	

	Publish updated copy of said product 
	

	

	18
	View Inventory
	Click on the “inventory” feature on the shop homepage 
	

	

	Inventory data can only be changed when a product’s quantity or price is edited from “edit product” point 
	View provided stock data inclusive of stock performance, total stock quantity, etc.
	

	

	19
	Accept Dispute
	View a filed dispute
	22. Dispute’s status remains the same after accepting 
	Contact support for assistance 
	

	Accept said dispute
	

	

	

	Proceed to resolve dispute 
	

	

	

	20
	Reject Dispute 
	View a filed dispute 
	

	

	If a dispute is rejected, the user who filed said dispute is notified and prompted to either file a complaint or cancel. 


If a complaint is filed, the dispute is escalated to Motopay admin to be resolved
	Click on “reject” dispute 
	

	

	State reason for rejection 
	

	

	Provide supporting documents (if any)
	

	

	Submit reason with documents provided 
	

	

	21
	Motopay
	File Dispute 
	Navigate to “dispute” on the motopay app 
	23. User is unable to file a dispute 
	Check to see that user’s device has internet connectivity 
	Disputes filed from the point of product purchase is resolved on the shop module and involves both buyer and seller while, disputes filed from other points on the platform such as payment or support are resolved by the Motopay admin and only involves user concerned  
	Select reason for dispute including - fraudulent, not received, others 
	

	

	Add details of said claim 
	

	

	Upload supporting documents (if any) 
	

	

	Submit dispute 
	

	

	22
	Connect
	Create Story
	Navigate to the connect feed and click “Create story” 
	24. User is unable to upload picture/video from their device
	Check that user’s device has internet connectivity 
	Images uploaded on connect must be max 5mb
	Take a picture in real time or upload an image or video from gallery
	Check that picture/video is the recommended size
	View Story
	Navigate to the connect feed and click on a user’s story
	25. User is unable to view stories
	Check that user’s device has internet connectivity
	

	View story and take decisive actions including - 
	

	

	

	Click on the “+” icon on the connect feed 
	

	

	

	Create Post
	Add post in written format or upload an image/video as preferred
	26. User is unable to create a post successfully 
	Check to see that user’s device has internet connectivity
	Images uploaded on connect must be max 5mb
	Add tags or hashtags (if/as applicable) 
	Check to see that user’s content is not in violation of set guidelines 
	

	Proceed to “create post”
	Check to see that user’s post is not in infringement of a copyright 
	

	Highlight (post to feed)
	At the point of payment successful, click on “post to feed” on provided receipt
	

	

	

	Preview post generated from said receipt 
	

	

	

	Proceed to post to feed
	

	

	

	Search
	Click on the search bar provided 
	

	

	

	Type in search keywords or use auto generated keywords provided 
	

	

	

	View search result as preferred
	

	

	

	Edit bio
	Click on the “edit” button provided on the connect bio 
	27. User is unable to successfully update bio data
	Check to see if user’s device has internet connectivity 
	

	Edit available information including - 
	

	

	

	Review and save updated information 
	

	

	

	Click the "QR code" provided on a user’s profile.
	

	

	

	Scan to follow
	Scan the QR code provided using the scanner displayed
	28. User is unable to scan provided QR code
	Check to see if user’s device has internet connectivity
	

	Review the social data provided and take preferred decisive action including - Follow, message
	

	

	

	CONCLUSION 


This document is for the support team (inclusive of the AI chatbot)  to understand users’ journeys across the entire Motopay ecosystem. Please note that it is dynamic and would continue to evolve as the product evolves.